Matthew Morley
Week 10 - Switch Q15

Can a switch statement do the same thing as an if else statement? if so, give an example.
Yes, it can. For example, you can use a switch to take a interger as an input and do a specific thing if the input is "2" vs "4", or use default: as the 'else' part.

What data types can you use in a switch statement ?
Two - the interger or char(icter)

What does the break statement do?
The break statments means that the program will stop falling through the rest of the switch and will exit it.

What does Fall Through mean ?
Fall through means that if one condition is true, all the rest below it in the switch will occur.

What does the default word do in a switch statement ?
The default word is like the 'else' part of an if-else statement - it happens everytime if the switch falls through.

What are the uses for the switch statement ?
A switch statment can be useful when used like an if-else, but more clean. It however can't do as much with complex conditions.

Why does the switch start in the OFF state ?
If a switch were to start ON, then it would always fall through every condition and wouldn't be much us
e.
Is it necessary to have switch statement, or can you do basically the same with if, and if else
statements ?
You can basically do the same thing witn if and if else statments, and it is sometimes a better idea to use ifs.

Which are the only data types that can be used with the switch conditions/cases ?
Char and interger and the only data types that can be used with switch cases.

Find a good www.youtube.com video that explains the switch statement in C++, write a summary.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_CelY_ZBXb4
Switches in c++ are like if statements, with the added benefit of being able to "fall through" and without a lot of fancy conditions you have in if statements. They can be good for doing certain things better than if statements.

What does the default option do in a switch statement ?
The default option is always going to be "true", as it is true by default. Make sure it's at the bottom, otherwise the switch will fall through every time.

Can you have two or more conditions for a case in a switch ? ( Internet research )
Not that I can find - at least not easily. It is technically possible, but not using switches correctly.

Can you turn the switch statement OFF, after it is turned ON ? ( Internet research )
You can use break; to exit a switch, which "turns it OFF".

Can you have fall through with cascading if statements ?
Kind of - if you set up a lot of complex conditions, but it will be very complicated.

What do you prefer, the if or switch statement ? Why
It depends on what I need to acomplish - if I need something to "fall through", use a switch. But for complex conditions, I will use a switch. 
